* The deadline is Monday 30.5. at midnight.

* Please, ask questions preferably on the forum (unless they reveal part of the solution).

* Submissions should happen by email as usual.

# 1. Pretty-printing

Implement a pretty-printer for at least the AE language (with addition and
numbers), and possibly for the FAE language (with only numbers).

**Explanation:** A pretty-printer produces strings representing object-language
expressions in some concrete syntax that is easy to understand for you; for
instance, `Add(1, Add(2, 3))` could produce `1 + 2 + 3`. Generating something
like `1 + (2 + 3)` can be easier and is also acceptable, but is harder to read.

**Motivation:** Pretty-printers are useful to inspect and understand object
programs more easily. Spending time to write a pretty-printer can save you time
to work on object programs.

**Suggested type signatures of functions to implement:**
```scala
def prettyPrint(e: Exp): String
```

**Learning goals:**
- practice writing different traversals on programs
- revise understanding of FAE programs and object syntax
- practice write data visualization tools to make other work more effective

# 2. Syntactic equality and α-equivalence

Implement syntactic equality and α-equivalence (α = alpha) of FAE
object-language expressions, as defined below. Will `App(Fun('x, 'x), 1)` be
alpha-equivalent to `1`?

**Explanation:**
- Two expressions are syntactically (or structurally) equal if their syntax
  coincides. For instance, expression `Add(1, 2)` is equal to expression `Add(1,
  2)` but not to expression `3`. However, `Fun('x, 'x)` and `Fun('y, 'y)` are
  not syntactically equal according to this definition, even if they just differ
  in the name of a bound variable. Hence, this relation relates too few programs
  together.
- Two expressions are alpha-equivalent if they are syntactically equal up to
  alpha-renaming — that is, replacing bound variables with other bound
  variables. `Add(1, 2)` is still different from `3`, but now `Fun('x, 'x)` and
  `Fun('y, 'y)` are identical.

**Hint:**
- Syntactic equivalence is easier than alpha-equivalence, and is implemented
  automatically by `==` because we use `case classes`. However, implementing
  this is a first step to alpha-equivalence.
- To decide if two object functions such as `Fun('x, 'x)` and `Fun('y, 'y)` are
  alpha-equivalent, generate a fresh variable (say `'z`) and use substitution to
  alpha-rename both functions to use the fresh variable (here, `'z`) as bound
  variable, and then compare their bodies *recursively using alpha-equivalence*.
  In our example, both functions would be renamed to `Fun('z, 'z)`, hence they
  would be equal. If we take as second function `Fun('y, Add('y, 1))`, we'd
  rename it to `Fun('z, Add('z, 1))` and conclude it is not alpha-equivalent to
  `Fun('z, 'z)`.

**Suggested type signatures of functions to implement:**
```scala
def syntacticEquiv(l: Exp, r: Exp): Boolean
def alphaEquiv(l: Exp, r: Exp): Boolean
```

**Learning goals:**
- practice writing different traversals on programs
- understand how to define alpha-equivalence

# 3. GC
## Review Question

In the mark-and-sweep garbage collector presented in the lecture on
[Garbage Collection](../../lecturenotes/10-gc.scala), we use _breadth-first_
traversal to mark reachable nodes. What potential problem could it cause in a
_real_ interpreter?
- Does this use extra memory?
- If an object points to another, will they be allocated close to each other or
  not? What impact does this have on *reference locality* and *performance of
  CPU caches*?

## Programming Task

Modify the code to use _depth-first_ traveral instead. Does it improve the situation? Why?

# Comments on α-equivalence after seeing solutions

Here are some problematic testcases for α-equivalence.

```
assert(!alphaEquiv(Id('x), Id('y))) //Different free variables are different.

assert(alphaEquiv(Fun('x, Fun('y, Add('x, 'y))), Fun('u, Fun('z, Add('u, 'z))))
//as discussed in other thread

assert(alphaEquiv(
  App(Fun('x, Fun('y, Add('x, 'y))), 1),
  App(Fun('u, Fun('z, Add('u, 'z))), 1))
//alpha-equivalent things should stay alpha-equivalent in arbitrary contexts.
```
General comments:

* My description of α-equivalence was actually pseudocode for an algorithm, because I know it is not easy. This algorithm is not efficient (it has quadratic complexity because of repeated substitutions), but it is correct.
* Some people tried fancier algorithms using variable maps. There is such an efficient algorithm (taking linear time), I'll show you that.
* For both algorithms, at each time during a recursive traversal, each identifier on the LHS matches only one identifier in the RHS. Any implementation that does not do that has a bug.
