# Topics in the exercise session:

* Compare Peano numbers with Church-encoded numbers.
* Church-encoding for other algebraic data types.
* Beta-reduction, beta-normalization and beta-equivalence.
* Show beta-equivalence of, say, `App(and, t)` (with `and` and `t` defined as in the lecture on Church-encoding) and the identity function.

# Deadline for homework

The deadline is again next *Monday* (6th June) by midnight.

# Tasks for homework

## Task 1
As suggested by the [lecture notes](https://github.com/ps-tuebingen/PL1-2016/blob/master/lecturenotes/12-syntacticvsmeta.scala#L51), reimplement the Compositional interpreter as an internal visitor.

Try the same exercise with the standard environment-based FAE interpreter.

## Task 2
In the lecture on Church encodings, we have seen Church encodings in FAE of booleans, numerals and operations on them.  This exercise requires you to use them to accomplish some simple programming tasks.

1. We have seen how the exponent operation `exp` is defined in terms of `mult` and `one`.  Give a similar definition of `mult` in terms of `add` and `zero` (unlike the one presented in the lecture).
2. Study carefully how `multlist` works.  Then define a function called `sumlist` that sums all Church-numerals in a list.
3. Define a function called `allzeros` that tests whether a list of Church numerals are all zeros.

Do not forget to test your definitions.

## Task 3
Following the examples in the exercise, try defining the Church-encoding of pairs.
